hello and welcome to this After Effects
tutorial in which we're looking at the
issue of animation lip-sync that is
creating different lip shapes so that we
in shape and Oshea pan a shape and many
more I'm just using three for example
and then being able to switch between
them very quickly when you're sinking to
an audio file that you've brought in
from somewhere else into After Effects
and as you know you can listen to an
audio file with the RAM preview the 0
key on your number pad when you want to
listen to the audio and then making sure
that the appropriate mouth shape is
showing at the appropriate time against
the audio file so in this tutorial I've
just got three shapes to make it simple
and hopefully not too long but you would
usually have a competition with your
various mouth shapes and with your face
and your eyes and other bits and pieces
of your character so you can actually do
the lip sync and you move between them
now I've obviously chosen very big lip
shakes just to demonstrate this for you
but yours would obviously be a lot
smaller than this and as I say you can
have many different ones I've only
chosen three but you can have up to 15
or whatever different shapes and you
want to be able to go between them very
quickly now I'm not actually going to do
the animation part bringing the audio
file and going between the various lip
shapes what I want to show you is how
you can do that the method that's
involved to switch between the various
shapes at the appropriate time and then
move on in a probably in a separate
tutorial to show you how to create a
custom rig that allows you to very
quickly do that animation so the
appropriate mouth shape shows at the
appropriate time so we'll show the two
methods one is the basic method which is
sort of in the timeline is a little bit
fiddly and the second one is creating
the Riggin if you're doing a lot of work
you really want the rig which is a lot
quicker now it's worth saying that this
technique works from CC all the way down
to cs3 you can have any variation of
after effects in between it works just
as well in all of them and mainly I'm
also going to be working in frames at
the moment you can see my compositions
in seconds and I'm 30 seconds but I
actually want to work in frames now
cs6 and CC its control click I can't
quite remember what it was in previous
versions it might be all click but
otherwise you need to get into frames
just to make it slightly easier so this
is my main composition and in my main
composition I would have all my bits and
pieces to face the eyes the background
everything but I would also have all my
mouth shapes so I would go into the
competition and select all those mouth
shapes once they're all selected I want
to right click pre compose and in
previous versions with them all selected
it would be layer pre compose and once
they're pre compose and then call them
shapes pre comp and i'm going to move
all attributes and i'm going to open the
new composition so i'm going to click OK
there's the composition opened now i
actually only want each one of these to
last for one frame at the moment is 750
frames but i actually only want them one
frame long so what i'm going to do is
select them all again and holding the
Alt key i'm going to do the close square
brackets that looks like they've
disappeared but if i zoom in right down
here you'll see that actually they're
all one frame long so I've cut them down
to the minimum length they can be and
the next thing i want to do is separate
them out so that each one of them and
you might have 10 15 20 whatever they're
going to be you separate them out i'm
going to go bottom from top but it
really doesn't matter which way round
you go so they're all separated out fire
one frame and then i'm going to go to
the last frame chance to be there n to
end my work area so it's going around
those three frames right click on the
bar and then choose trim comp to work
area and that is now a three frame long
composition you might think that's crazy
but this is the technique we need to use
so I've got my three frame long
composition which would be 15 frames
have you had 15 different mouth shapes
basically it's got to be the length of
the number of mouth shapes that you have
to make this particular technique work
now I'm going to go back to the
composition where it existed and there
it is tiny little competition or pre
comp inside my main composition and all
my other layers would still be the full
30 seconds long the 750 frames which
would include the the shape of the face
and the eyeballs and what have you
and now on this particular layer I'm
going to right click on the layer I'm
going to go to time and then going to
enable time remapping now I'm going to
zoom in just a tad see concedes a little
bit better and then we've got time
remapping and if I just go through these
three frames that you see frame 0 to 1
is the first shape second shape third
shape so I or II okay so they're
actually based on the frames and then
nothing more now what we want to do is
we want to be able to animate this by
using time remapping so that we can have
any frame we want at any point in the
composition so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to delete this second keyframe
because I don't need that one and I'm
going to just zoom out a tad now so you
can see it and say at 25 frames if I
went there and I was to have animated
the time remapping and I was to choose
say to at that point I've got a
different shape however what you will
see is I kind of go through other shapes
in the middle so in control Z to undo
that all i need to do at this point is
actually right click on this first
keyframe and simply choose toggle whole
key frame which means that the keyframe
will hold until i make a change cert 30
frames which is just over one second
then i can change it to two I've got the
other one and nothing will happen
between those two keyframes and so if I
go forward to 50 frames and I take it to
one I'm going through all the various
different keyframes I've got and they
will hold until I get to the appropriate
place now this is fine if you've only
got a few mouth shapes and you can
remember what number they are associated
with so we can see that we've got zero
is one shape to is another shape one is
another shape and you might write it on
a piece of paper or whatever to create
that kind of animation which is fine as
I say as long as you've got the ability
to be able to remember all the different
key frames but it'll be a lot easier and
a lot better if you created a custom rig
which gave you the indication at the top
of the screen as to all the different
shapes you have and a slider that you
just slide over the appropriate shape
when you're at the appropriate place in
the timeline and it
the key frame in for you so to do that
I'm going to delete these two keyframes
but leave time remapping on because
that's an important part of the whole
process and then in the next tutorial
we're going to create the custom rig and
I can show you how that's done my name
is Andrew Davis I hope you found this
useful and thanks for watching